I have worked with Seeing Eye dogs for more than twenty-five
years. Training with a new dog is one of the hardest things I've ever
done. It is intense. It is getting to know someone--a dog someone--very
well very quickly. It is doing what it takes to become a team in a little
over two weeks. It is building the trust you need to cross a busy street
with no one nearby to intervene if either one of you makes a bad decision.
I went off to the Seeing Eye in August,  2016. Match Day came. As
instructed, I went to the lounge. My instructor, Kaelin, said, "Your new
dog is Chance. He is a Labrador Golden cross." His maternal grandmother
was the Golden Retriever.

I took the leash and I petted this dog. I thought "Oh my goodness. he's
not at all like my former dog, Elwood." Elwood had this thin face and a
long nose. I called it his Pinocchio nose which he shoved into everything,
including me. By contrast, Chance had a flat face, a stubby body and a stubby
tail. His coat felt rough and a bit oily though I knew he had had a
bath earlier. Elwood۪s fur was fluffy and fly-away when
he was freshly washed.

"Oh well," I thought, "This is a new dog. I went through this the last
time. I will just get used to him. After a while, he'll۪ just be Chance
and I won't compare him to anyone else"

Chance did everything I asked. When I said "sit" he sat. When I said
"down" he went down. When I said "come" he came.
But Chance, in many ways, was uncommunicative. He kept his own counsel,
never reacting strongly to anything I said or did.

When we worked together out on the streets, he stopped at every curb as
he was trained to do. In the few occasions where he missed his target
the stopping point, I corrected him. When we did it over, he was perfect. The
only thing he did not do was walk fast. (I like my dogs to be just a
little too fast when I get them. There is a lot of huffing and puffing
on my part at first. They slow down as they get older. They say,
"Are we going there again?" and they plod along.)

Time was passing so I said to my instructor, "Things aren't getting any better.
This dog isn't working out for me."

The next day we went out for our training time, just the two of
us. (Normally, we work in pairs.).
We started walking along a quiet side street.

I said, "You see, he's not walking very fast, as fast as I would like."

Kaelin said, "Well, tell him to go faster."

I gave the command to go faster: "Hup-up".

Not much happened. Chance took two steps a little quicker but that was
about it.

Kaelin and I had talked about it being hot and humid--August in New
Jersey. We had talked about Chance's۪s coat being black, absorbing the
summer heat, over 90 degrees most working days.  

I said, "Today it's
cooler. It's overcast. It's early morning. We don't have all
those issues."
 
We stopped on the street.

Kaelin said to me, "Do you want a new dog?"

I thought, "This is it! There is no going back. If I say 'yes'
Chance will no longer be my dog."

Afterward, I realized Kaelin was asking me formally to return Chance to the care of the Seeing Eye and 
relinquish any claims on him with no guarantee that there would be another 
suitable dog available in the kennel. There was no going back. Once I said I wanted a new dog, I could not get 
Chance back. If there was no suitable match for me right now I would go home immediately and wait for an opening 
in another class and for another dog.

Standing on the street that August morning in Morristown, I said "Yes,
I do want a new dog."
