Title: Tabitha
Texts: Acts 9:36-43; Psalm 23; Revelation 7:14-21; John 10:11-30
Date: May 12, 2019
Place: St. Lukes Episcopal Church, Milwaukee

In the name of Jesus. Amen.
Although it continues to surprise me, I know many of you have trouble with metaphors and poetic language. You want facts and figures, something quantifiable and measureable. Something known not imaginary. I am willing to bet that even you played games as a child, read stories, watch movies and may have even been seen picking up a free comic book last Saturday to step into a world far beyond this one.
So let’s step into a world of signs and wonders, the world of the Book of Acts, the world of the early church. Come with me to Joppa and to Tabitha’s house and meet the only woman called a disciple in the New Testament.
What do we know about Tabitha? She lives in Joppa, a port city on the Mediterrean Sea. Although widows are in her house when Peter arrives, her own marital status is unknown. This suggests Tabitha is a woman of independent means. She is able to perform good works especially providing clothing for widows and their families.
In the previous chapter of Acts, after baptizing the Ethiopian eunuch on the Gaza road, "Philip found himself at Azotus, and as he was passing through the region, he proclaimed the good news to all the towns until he came to Caesarea." (Acts 8:40 NRSV) Philip would have passed through Joppa on his way home. Tabitha may have heard Philip preach and he may have baptized her.
Now messengers go to Lydda to ask Peter to come back with them. I don’t tthink these two men go to Lydda, a town about a three hour walk away, to say to him, "Help! Tabitha has died. Come quick's! You can raise her from the dead."
As much as any one of you might wish to, you don’t send that sort of text to Fr. Jason: "Come quick's. Raise my mother, father, husband, wife, sister, brother, son, daughter, grandmother, grandfather, neighbor… from the dead." If he could, he certainly would. I am sure of that. But you text "Help! Come quick's!" because you are hurting and you want comfort and assurance.
Many come to believe in Jesus after Tabitha is raised. What about you? What is the good news you came today to hear? That long ago and far away an obscure woman came back to life? No, I don’t think so. Unexplained and unexplainable things happen every day. You came for comfort and assurance.
I invited you to imagine Tabitha because she is an ordinary person like you, going about her business, doing Jesus’ work as well as she can. She made an impact in a small circle of widows and community of disciples. Tabitha, living in a city where we have no record of a Christian church until the fifth century, finds herself lying in her upper room with a man she has never seen before holding her hand and telling her to rise. No wonder she sat up.
News spread throughout the city. I am certain Tabitha had to put down her sewing more than once to talk to a curiosity seeker. You can picture it, can’t you?
She is hemming a cloak when someone comes in and starts questioning her. The temptation is great to send them away. She is busy. But instead she, and perhaps the widow she is helping, sit down, hem trailing, to give their witness to this stranger.
"Come and hear more on Sunday," Tabitha says when the stranger leaves. "Jesus died on the cross and rose to life forever for you and me. This body of mine will die again, but because of Jesus, I am here today, an ordinary woman, performing an ordinary task, helping someone less fortunate than me, sharing the good news with you.
was
Tabitha is a wonder not just for the first's century people of Joppa. She is a sign of Jesus’ comfort and assurance for each one of you. She is why you came today, to hear that death is not the last word. Jesus won the victory over death not just for himself, not just for Tabitha, but for you and everyone you love. Jesus and Tabitha live and so will you. Amen.
